so basically the rule of thumb in video
games for 3D MMO RPGs is render only
that which can be observed by the Avatar
there what is real how do you define
real Humanity wasn't meant to live like
this it is now p and conventional to say
that we live in a simulation Elon Musk
says that we're most likely in a
simulation we live in a computer
simulation it's like The Truman Show
nothing matters go crazy it's all just a
video game I played video games before
so you know I know it I'm down a little
bit these sentiments are mostly just a
product of postmodern nihilism the
absurdity of Modern Life yeah it's the
guy feel like a cowgirl and me ready it
huh one in which society feels
purposeless docile and domesticated in
which we're hypnotized by material gain
stupid status games and mere survival
look at that subtle off white coloring
oh my God
it even has a
watermark we know it's all kind of fake
and ephemeral but we continue playing
the game for some reason Frozen by our
desires and Paralyzed by faithlessness
in higher worlds that have been
relegated to mythology that few people
actually believe are
real post pandemic we are forking from
this zombie path everything is speeding
up and the future is fracturing at an
accelerated Pace artificial intelligence
war in Gaza Ukraine war the post
pandemic timeline is a forcing function
for us to reconcile with the ugliest
parts of
ourselves them our yian shadows every
one of you are terrorists I don't care
what you say perhaps we our player is
saying okay now I need to make some
changes or now I need to take control
and make sure it doesn't go do this
thing the simulation is breaking we are
glimpsing the light Beyond Plato's Cave
and that light can either eviscerate us
or save
us but where did we get this idea of the
simulation in the first place we are
living in a computer programmed reality
and the only clue we have to it is when
some variable is
changed well there were some early and
very important proponents like sci-fi
authors Philip K dick and William Gibson
but the theory wasn't given its coveted
academic stamp of approval until Oxford
philosopher Nick Bostrom wrote his 2012
book super intelligence the hypothesis
that we are literally living in a
computer
simulation we used to say in artificial
intelligence that the Turing test was
the Holy Grail that developing an AI
indistinguishable from another human
being would be near impossible to
achieve and then at least in the realm
of text we've done just that with open
ai's chat GPT I think like just this is
the The Arc of human technological
history as we build bigger and more
complex systems so why shouldn't we
expect the same thing to occur with
virtual reality the creation of a
virtual world as High Fidelity as ours
one that's even totally
indistinguishable from it this was
bostrom's essential thesis you know I
know this St doesn't exist after 9 years
you know what I realize ignorance is
bliss so in a future War torn re Source
constrained World why wouldn't everyone
begin opting into these brain machine
virtual simulations wouldn't infinite
resources at your fingertips be more
pleasurable than walking around
microchipped in a shanty town without
access to clean water but maybe that
future isn't inevitable what about a
resource abundant world that's always
possible too well that resource
abundance would be achieved through
technology that is probably dual use in
other words Tech that can either save
Humanity or destroy it this technology
has the chance to either bring us
together or completely rip us apart once
and for
all take nuclear fusion it can destroy
Humanity with a hydrogen bond or
theoretically save it with controlled
free energy and the costs barriers to
entry and civil engineering required to
build all of these Technologies are
exponentially dropping we're not at the
point where a kid in his bedroom can
blow up the world just yet but we might
be uncomfortably closed soon who should
we nuke first how about Las Vegas Las
Vegas
[Music]
great so in a resource abundant world
that anyone can destroy at the drop of a
hat if you were an Elite member of that
world or a guardian maybe you would send
the average citizenry through a
simulation before they can enter base
reality a test to ensure they adhere to
the right higher virtues before giving
them access to such possibly destructive
technology ology a sort of global scale
initiation process if you will maybe
we're all just vying for access to get
to the next level a world of immortality
resource abundance and infinite love how
do you know you don't have an incredibly
High Fidelity biological skin suit
headset on right now in the form of your
body our senses are a filter to stop our
brains from being overwhelmed with
reality and so what we see is a limited
aspect of everything around us but that
is a different model of reality than
people currently have today but it's one
I'm sympathetic to which is that the
sensory organs are not necessarily
productive they're reductive on a
default state of almost greater
omniscience but an inability to make
sense of right
things even Elon Musk America's Chief
industrialist of SpaceX Tesla and X Fame
thinks that we're living in a simulation
there's a one in billion chance that
this is based reality oh okay ean's and
Nick bostrom's arguments are so easy to
comprehend in common sense and so Harden
to argue with that even a totally
close-minded midwit like Neil degrass
Tyson accepts that we are 50% likely to
be living in a simulation it's hard to
argue against the possibility that all
of us are not just the creation of some
kid in a parents basement programming up
a world for their own
entertainment in walks Riz an MIT and
Stanford educated computer scientist
with a very successful career as a video
game entrepreneur we are most likely
inside some kind of a computer
simulation Burke takes bostrom's work on
the simulation Theory to the next level
he points to all sorts of phenomenon in
physics from the finely tuned physical
constants to Quantum indeterminacy to
show that reality is likely based on
information Theory or Quantum Code that
humans are rendering in real time the
more I looked into the idea of the
physical Universe the more I realized
that many physicists are telling us that
the physical world doesn't really exist
right and start with John Wheeler he
said that physics went through three
phases in his life in the first phase
they thought everything was a particle
meaning they thought it was like a solid
thing then when quantum mechanics came
along they thought everything was a
field and the conclusion he came to
finally was the more he looked into what
an actual particle is the only thing he
could find was that it was an answer to
a series of yes no questions
M but he also points to Christian
Islamic vidic and even classical Western
texts like Plato that all Point towards
a Proto architecture behind religion one
that depicts Life as a sort of painful
yet joyous karmic game in which we must
learn repeated lessons in the Sufi Trad
I you they talk about the 70,000 veils
these veils are put between you and
Ultimate Reality between you and God and
you're trying to remember who you were
and who God is ver also discusses time
timelines and time Loops as the core
variables in the simulation
probability really only
exists if you do something multiple
times so how is it that we can talk
about a probability wave and collapsing
if it's only going to happen one time
the only way that is real probability is
if it was run multiple times much of
this points to a simulation theory that
in my mind is far more life affirming
empowering and meaningful for the
average individual than the typical
nistic framing that you were just a
cognic computational machine and that
your life has no
meaning so without further Ado please
enjoy this special life affirming
documentary with this week's amazing
American Alchemist rzan
ver this episode is sponsored by delete
me online privacy is no longer a luxury
it's a necessity political polarization
is at an all-time high and personal
information like your phone number and
address is easy to find online sadly
this opens the door to identity theft
harassment or even politically motivated
threats that's why I trust delete me to
remove my personal data from hundreds of
broker sites they've already rubbed a
ton of information I didn't even realize
was out there it's a simple way to
safeguard yourself and your family from
becoming targets and if you're into a
lot of these crazy topics that's always
possible get 20% off by going to join
delet me.com jessy2 and using the code
jessie2 at checkout thanks to delete me
for sponsoring today's episode use my
link in the description to start
protecting your data today
so you can think of simulation Theory as
having many different U flavors or axes
and one of the axes is whether it's
we're all NPCs non-player characters or
we're all avatars of players uh which I
call the RPG version or the role playing
game
version in this version a more expanded
more fundamental and more primordial
soul is voluntarily porting itself into
low-level
reality it goes back to Plato you know
maybe the myth of air or something he's
sort of Zapped into a body you know you
experience anamnesis where you forget
your sort of formal former primordial
self but there is that self and that
self has real agency in this in this
world so I think that's more life
affirming I do too and that's why I tend
to lean more towards the RPG version but
it also you know one of the reasons why
we can't remember is perhaps that's the
way the game was set up why because you
have been down there Neo you know that
road you know exactly where it
ends physics itself which involves very
finely tuned physical constants feels
like it was perfectly constructed to
create the conditions of our solar
system and the Earth as the great Steven
Hawking even admitted the laws of
science as we know them at present
contain many fundamental numbers like
the size of the electric charge of the
electron and the ratio of the masses of
the proton and the
[Music]
electron the remarkable fact is that the
values of these numbers seem to have
been very finely adjusted to make
possible the development of Life take
water one of the most basic resources
for intelligent life on Earth Earth it's
comprised of hydrogen and oxygen
hydrogen and oxygen happen to bond in a
way that forms a perfect crystal lattice
structure when frozen normally solids
are more dense than liquids and so they
sink below them but in the case of water
these perfect hexagonal Crystal
structures space H2O molecules out more
in ice than in water making it less
dense that's why you see water floating
above the surface if that weren't the
case and the Earth would flood many
times over but that's just the tip of
the iceberg no pun intended if planks
constant or the strong nuclear force
were slightly different it would
drastically change the formation and
stability of basic elements like
hydrogen carbon and oxygen in the first
place elements that as we just discussed
in the case of water are essential for
organic life if the gravitational
constant were different the Earth might
not be able to retain its own atmosphere
and the lifespan of the sun can be
drastically shorter than it is now this
wouldn't even allow for enough time for
life to form in the first place and what
about the Earth's Van Allen belt it
protects us from cosmic radiation that
would wipe life off the planet the Van
Allen belt is created by Earth's
magnetic field and if you think the
Earth's magnetic field isn't finally
tuned to support life try growing
organic life in a faraday chamber
removing the Earth's natural
electromagnetic frequencies grow a frog
embryo in a faraday chamber and it comes
out pretty messed up this is why
astronauts need to bring human resonance
machines up with them to space to mimic
the Earth's magnetic field otherwise
their bodies will stop functioning
properly and the magnetic field of the
earth blocks just enough solar radiation
to ensure humans don't get eviscerated
by over radiation but lets in just
enough to create some of the genetic
mutations necessary for natural
selection and evolution to
occur the conventional Dogma in Academia
is that these are all just happy
accidents that eventually occur with
enough time solar systems and planets
across eons but thinkers like RZ ver
think these perfectly fine-tuned
conditions point to intelligent creation
or
simulation in fact all of the possible
values of these constants have been run
through uh within a timeline of the
Multiverse I call it the simulated
Multiverse so they've been simulated and
we happen to be in the one that has the
constants that are uh well fine-tuned
for us to be able to live in it but
there are other universes out there
where we would not be able to
live we have more evidence for the
simulation in information Theory which
is the basis for the simulation in
computers and video games that we code
up every day you would use repeating
consistent structures to build programs
think about it if there are a few lines
of code that help the people at
Activision build Tony Hawks Pro Skater
that they can just reuse for Call of
Duty they'll just copy and paste that
code well in nature we see all sorts of
repeating patterns that seem to
represent the building blocks of organic
plant and animal
life the Fibonacci sequence is a
sequence of numbers in which each new
term is the sum of the previous two
terms 1 2 3 5 8 Etc as the sequence
progresses the ratio between consecutive
numbers in a Fibonacci Sequence
approaches the Golden Ratio or roughly
1.618 the dimensions of DNA follow
Fibonacci numbers the arrangement of
leaves on plant stems often follow
Fibonacci numbers to maximize sunlight
exposure the even trippier thing is that
these biological patterns often look
like fractals of larger cosmological
patterns in our solar system the arms of
spiral galaxies often form logarithmic
spirals displaying the golden ratio this
includes by the way our Milky Way galaxy
it's sort of like an infinite Russian
nesting do
system but how exactly does computer
science and information Theory work well
the basis of information Theory involves
bits or ones and zeros or on and off
switches or yeses and NOS which become
abstracted into higher level symbolic
language and eventually into icons and
images that we see on the graphical
interfaces we call computers so where
might we find ones and zeros in
nature plenty of particles have matter
antimatter pairs take an
electron electrons themselves are
perfectly interoperable they all have
the exact same atomic mass and
properties and they all have an
antimatter inverse called the positron
the antimatter or the zeros are not
really detectable maybe these binary
switches are being actively rendered by
an observer
and what about human beings themselves
well we all have four nucleotides that
make up DNA adenine guanine thyine and
cytosine or a GTC for sure but we call
them base pairs because a always bonds
with t and c always bonds with G so two
base pairs sounds like bits or ones and
zeros to
[Music]
me I
don't is it really so hard to believe
[Music]
but there is also this issue of the fact
that we all think we're in the same
reality right and are are we in the same
reality or not is an interesting
question and it's like a consensus
collapsing function yeah it's like a
consensus collapsing function you know
we could get into a whole discussion if
we had time about the Mandela
fact a phenomenon in which a large
number of people remember events that
don't seem to match real
reality it's called this because a big
group of people remember Nelson Mandela
dying in prison in the80s even going
into detail about his wife walking in a
funeral procession beside his casket for
2 hours that day an event that never
happened Mandela went on to be released
from prison he United South Africa and
he died in
2013 other people swear that in Star
wars's Empire Strikes Back Darth Vader
says Luke I am your father what he
actually says is no I am your father a
little less iconic Sex In The City is
actually Sex and the City the Flyn
Stones is actually spelled Flint Stones
there are countless
examples one of the interesting aspects
of the Mandela fact that I found was
when scripture changes because you know
people take their scripture pretty
seriously right uh I mean it's one thing
to have um you one letter change
somewhere which is a big deal like in
the case of The Bernstein Bears versus
the Burnstein Bears or one word in the
case of The Empire Strikes Back you know
Luke I am your
father but people remember their
scripture almost word for word and so
there are all these Bible changes like
like Isaiah and The Lion and the lamb
and that that Lon is not there anymore
and in Islam they memorize the Quran
word for word I mean that before you
become a priest there's there's a
designation called haes which is
somebody who literally can go through
the entire Quran word for it and I
always thought that was kind of stupid
like why do we need to memorize word for
word we have the books now we have
computers we can do a search it doesn't
seem to make sense and I looked around
to see if anybody had claimed any of the
words had changed and there was this one
Sufi Imam who claimed that the reason
why even after the introduction of
writing and writing down the Quran that
it's still memorized word for word is
that there are these enti
out there who don't live in normal space
and time the way we do they can go back
and change physical objects but they're
not allowed to change our memory and
those beings are called Jin the
Jin 10,000 years will give you such a
crick in the neck now would probably be
a good time to pay homage to the great
Claude Shaman the architect of
information Theory which led to Modern
computation principles and the great
physicist John archabald Wheeler one of
the first proponents of information as
the basis of physics it was wheeler who
coined the phrase it from bit and the
more recent and probably more accurate
version it from Cubit to suggest that
physical reality arises from a base
substrate of
information I know he's a proponent of
kind of it from bit but I I'm more
familiar with you know the Schrodinger
you know just a probability function so
how do you get from probability function
to like a binary yes no question sort of
thing right well okay so you might have
to do a little bit of bridging there
because if you think of the probability
wave yeah what it's actually saying uh
is that particles are in superp position
uh it's like a wave or an interference
pattern now that's just weird right so
why would the universe be in states of
superp position until there's a
measurement or an observation you know
there's no good reason for that as far
as we can tell uh it's just one of these
mysteries of Nature and so for me it it
very much reminded me uh quantum physics
very much reminded me of how we build
video games today and Virtual Worlds and
so if it becomes uh what we sometimes
call a lazy evaluation in computer
science which is you don't evaluate
anything until you need to uh and don't
render it unless you need to you render
only those pieces you need to that could
very much provide an interesting
explanation for the why of this Quantum
indeterminacy that kind of reminds me of
like if you have Heisenberg's
uncertainty principle you know the
measure the position momentum gets
fuzzier and sort of Vice Versa it's
almost like a computational caching
function or something like only so much
can be stored in local
memory and what about how light
travels when that follow information
Theory principles ver M's principle of
lease time states that light follows the
path that takes the least time to travel
from one point to another if the
universe were a simulation then the
rendering of Light which is the
foundation of everything we see seems
like it is governed by algorithms that
seek the most efficient
outcomes in computers you have a client
side and a server side a front-end
interface and a backend database well
that actually might be how Consciousness
works we may be nodes in a larger
Network when one person learns A New
Concept or achieves a breakthrough they
might make it incrementally easier for
others to reach these new heights it's
like rert sheldrake's you know moric
resonance where if uh 100 people do a
crossword puzzle and you do a crossword
puzzle tomorrow you're a little more
likely to do it accurately where you're
pushing information to the server as
well it's almost as if all scientific
and material world accomplishments get
uploaded to a central republ repository
once that upload occurs a new node
downloading that information becomes
that much easier also if you make a new
chemical compound for the first time and
you crystallize it that Crystal form
won't have existed before cuz it's a new
compound and the more often you
crystallize it the easier it should get
for crystals of that kind to form that's
amazing this might also explain the
banister effect the idea that when a
significant barrier is broken in
athletics it can lead to a mental shift
that opens the floodgates for others to
achieve the same New Heights the
banister effect is named after British
athlete Roger banister who broke the
4minute mile record in 1954 at Oxford
within just 2 and 1 half years 10 other
Runners had all broken the 4-minute mile
I was barely aware of the fact that
Chris chataway was now going into the
lead if humans are the client side and
there is a server side storing
information for us how would that client
server communication take place well if
you recall from my video the man who
built UFOs for the CIA I interview a
Navy whistleblower who discusses an
extended version of
electrodynamics that involves a far more
faithful adherence to James clerk
Maxwell's 21 original equations instead
of oler heavyside simplification into
four Vector calculus equations
when you introduce the scal or field you
now have the possibility of at least
three completely new kinds of waves some
of these waves might involve faster than
light Communications and one of those
exotic New Wave types is called Helia
coidal so maybe that's how biological
life gets downloads from the central
server and what about humans every human
body has an electromagnetic field and if
this extended version of electrodynamics
is real Maybe maybe that's how we call
information from the larger field or
server this fully comports with the
phenomenology of thought way more than
saying that thoughts are just locally
produced and it might even explain some
very interesting ancient and biblical
depictions of holy figures the symbol
for the crowd is called Corona
radiata it's a nerve endings inside the
brain and we were thought of in
neurology we cannot control this we
cannot activate that and then I came and
I showed how to Enlighten activate the
corona radat white Mass inside the brain
I know I'm a king man the real king and
you and all all of us we should be
Kings when I first heard about you it
was actually from uh jacqu Valle and he
was like there's a guy named RZ ver
and he has this crazy Theory and he sort
you know took me through it and he was
like it's impossible to disprove like
it's I think it's right I read his first
book and I wasn't um completely
convinced yeah I read his second book
and then I and then I he asked me to
write the forward for the French version
which I did because by then I was hooked
and I couldn't find a flaw in what he
was saying wow okay what is the
simulated Multiverse what what is the
core Loop engine why run many you know
kind of simulation functions yeah so you
know let's start with the Multiverse
interpretation of quantum mechanics
which was put forth by Hugh Everett who
was a student of of John Wheeler's uh at
Princeton and he basically came up with
a way to explain one of the problems
with the Copenhagen interpretation and
so one of the problems was you have this
this probability wave and you have
collapsing to one possibility but nobody
understood how that would actually
happen there's no math that brings you
from this to this directly it was like
magic well it's a scher's equation I
guess but it's like it's like square of
the amplitude of the yeah that's how you
get the probability but nobody really
understands how do you go from that down
to just one to the one yeah ABS so the
collapse particular I can State nobody
knows why we yeah right and what happens
to the other possibilities at that point
right well so you know as I began to
think about it if you look at the
original definition of probability it
was uh one of these uh French
mathematicians I'm forgetting which one
but somebody asked him about rolling
dice he basically said if you take a die
a single dice it has six possible
Futures right so he said if you roll
this dice you know you're going to get
one of these possible Futures and so
probability really only
exists if you do something multiple
times right otherwise what does it mean
there's no meaning to probability right
right how would you know if you hadn't
flipped the coin so many times right
right and the idea is that over time the
more you do the more it's likely to get
into great Point yeah and so so how is
it that we can talk about a probability
wave and collapsing if it's only going
to happen one time the only way that is
real probability is if it was run
multiple times and ever said well if you
take these different possibilities in
the amplitudes uh what you have is a
wave that is basically a suet a super
position of all these waves and he said
you can separate one of the waves but
then you're still left with all the
other subsets of that that wave and
turns out you can separate all of them
so into different physical universes and
so you know he put out this idea that
when that collapse happens what's really
happening is we are in one of those
universes and the other universes exist
out there the problem with that approach
according to many physicists is it's not
parsimonious right that's a word they
like to use because it's basically
creating a new universe like all the
time right we're talking about at the
quantum decision state right so much
smaller than a second we've been
creating new universes and so that idea
seems absurd to some people that we we
have to create these entire physical
universes um and I like to say well
there's really nothing in nature no big
object that can clone itself so quickly
unless there's one scenario in which I
could conceive it happening and that is
that the universe is actually
information computation yeah and comput
so you don't actually have to clone the
whole physical Universe you just have to
clone the information in the
universe it seems like if you go back to
the actual Copenhagen school a lot of
them were flirting with the idea that
the mind was part of the collapsing of
the wave function so like you could even
you know read like Heisenberg and he
sort of Muses about this you know it all
has to go through the mind and then you
had Max plon earlier and Von noyman
vigner that was sort of part of their
interpretation yeah and then later on it
turned into this you know if you talk to
most Quantum You Know Field theorists
now they would say that uh you know it's
just when particles sort of collide they
collapse into an nigen State and that's
independent of you know sort of human
Observer and I do think I do find it
interesting that a lot of the you know
all the early proponents the people that
actually made the equations that govern
you know uh quantum mechanics and then
Quantum field Theory uh were proponents
of of this and then it kind of turned
into this you know shut up and calculate
thing right and and I think that is
something we shouldn't try to lose I I
think sometimes we try to have too much
certainty because we think the other
thing is absurd right uh I mean wheeler
was one of the ones who who talked about
this idea that in quantum physics there
is no subject object separation you
can't have like the scientists like to
think there's a there's a window here
and I'm watching the observation over
there and what I'm doing here doesn't
affect that right that's kind of the
basis of scientific experimentation I
mean you can't have science if you can't
have that but wheeler was one of the
proponents who said there is no such
thing that basically we are in a
participatory universe so if we are
observing this experiment we are
affecting the
[Music]
outcome even Irwin schroer the creator
of that wave equation that basically
governs all subatomic Behavior said
Consciousness cannot be accounted for in
physical terms for Consciousness is
absolutely fundamental it cannot be
accounted for in terms of anything else
Schrodinger had a lecture series called
what is life in which he expounds upon
his view of Consciousness as being
fundamental to physics biology and even
life
itself he also had a dog named otman
which is the primordial Soul or Eternal
self in Hinduism but I
digress so that is the big debate in
physics and it's one that still hasn't
been solved you know in in my opinion
yet we like to think it's been solved
and so we come up with ways in which we
say oh yeah it's only when the particles
inter with each other and measurement
not observation because observation is
what requires an actual conscious entity
to observe it measurement you might say
doesn't but turns out that's not quite
true either because the measurement
could be in a state of superp position
until when until somebody actually looks
at that measurement uh exactly which
could happen in the future yeah there's
no epistemological way around it having
to pour itself through a human mind
ultimately and so like you can say it's
the quantum detector but that is as much
speculation as somebody's saying it's
the mind it's it's sort of the
speculation versus speculation and I
think the sort of smug you know
dismissal of the mind being the
collapser of the wave function doesn't
never sort of made sense to me it feels
ideological in you know part of our sort
of you know age of disenchant or
materialist reductionist sort of age but
what about respected mainstream
physicists do any of them have good
theories about the mind and how it
relates to wave function collapse
renowned Nobel Prize winner and
mathematician Roger Penrose constructed
such a theory of Mind called
orchestrated objective reduction or orc
o r for short it argues that within the
brain's microtubules SpaceTime itself
exists in superp position and that
there's a gravitational component of
that space-time superp position that
builds up until it reaches a
threshold once it hits this threshold
the microtubules lose their Quantum
coherence and the wave function
collapses but before the collapse and
during the gravity buildup there is a
fleeting window of time a space where
nothing is set in stone where all
outcomes exist in a Quantum
Haze could this be where Free Will comes
into play so Consciousness is the other
way around it depends on that choice
which nature makes all the time when the
state becomes one or the other rather
than the superposition of one and the
other and when that happens there is
what we're saying now an element of
protoconsciousness takes place
protoconsciousness is roughly speaking
the building block out of which actual
Consciousness is constructed hrose
believes his theory of orchestrated
objective reduction preserves Free Will
so Consciousness is not a pure
computation or to put it differently
mashing up Penrose and Wheeler reality
is a computation but Free Will and
intention is driving that computation
it's in the command center Free Will
itself is computationally
irreducible also if we have free will
that seems computationally irreducible
yes and so that's the other part of it
is if you add free will into a
computational process which by the way
most computer scientists don't want to
do and which most most scientists don't
want to do because they think of Free
Will as just being Randomness Quantum
Randomness right in fact in computers
you there's a there's usually in every
language there's a command to generate a
random number but technically it's not
really random because it's using a
well-defined algorithm based on some key
phrase and maybe the time you know in
nanc or milliseconds that you actually
made that request uh and so the only
true Randomness in computers comes from
Quantum Computing uh because Quantum
Computing is relying on the actual
Quantum effect of superp position
collapsing into a position and that is
like the only true Randomness and so
scientists try to Define Free Will as
the same as that kind of Randomness uh
but if you take a different approach
which is this is a computer program
that's running but there's a player and
an avatar the player can actually make
the choice yeah so You' have now
introduced free will but you need to
step out of the system to introduce Free
Will and that is the same problem why
you know scientists didn't want to deal
with Consciousness they priority
assertion now let's get back to quantum
mechanics in general relativity time and
gravity are couped in quantum mechanics
gravity becomes so weak that it
basically becomes a negligible Force so
again if time and gravity are coupled
why wouldn't time also become negligible
or superpositional at subatomic Quantum
scales in sher's equation you have
position and momentum superp
positionality the idea that before their
observation subatomic particles don't
exist in discrete locations
their locations are probabilistic excuse
my French but that never made any
[__] sense to me now I'm going to
propose something very speculative and
probably a bit heretical that at
subatomic levels just as gravity breaks
down time breaks
down okay maybe gravity is a force and
time is not but the two are still
coupled and it begs the important
question why do we take time for granted
as a classical Axiom on a subatomic
level when we don't understand gravity
at all on a subatomic level so maybe
time superp positionality is what causes
position and momentum superp
positionality in other words there's
probably some time-based wave function
that is Upstream of our position and
momentum wave function well that would
change the Penrose Theory a bit maybe
the brain actually decoheres time into a
singular linear timeline the brain might
be the reason we experience linear time
and when the brain is in a particularly
coherent state it might be able to do
some interesting things related to
time if the brain is a Quantum system as
Penrose thinks it likely has access to
shards of the
future it's almost like your mind is
like stylus and there's like an LP
player or something like a record and
it's choosing the particular timelines
or or something and those those sort of
already pre-exist you know maybe maybe
it's just up to the mind to move the
stylus or something yeah yeah well I
think that's an interesting way to look
at it you know I look at it more like
it's runs of the simulation and and the
universe is in fact a quantum computer
and you can run the game State forward
but then you can come back and change
the game State as well like you can save
the game State and say okay I ran that
now I'm going to run this other one
let's see which one is optimal for me uh
and then that's the one that's I'm going
to let move
forward but there was an even more
heretical branch of physics that began
to grow in momentum mid-century one that
went a bit farther than wheeler although
he did actively entertain it at times
this is the notoriously murky field of
parapsychology where the study of Mind
matter interactions the mind is no
longer limited by the parameters of the
body a person's Consciousness and
awareness is able to transcend space and
time and describe what is going on
hundreds or thousands of miles away or
hours or days in the future if you
believe the findings of
ology departments a friend of mine who
will remain anonymous but now runs a
multi-billion dollar hedge fund happened
to help run that Lab at Princeton it was
called the Princeton engineering
anomalous research lab and he was an
expert in one of its staple experiments
the random event generator take a
well-calibrated device that produces
binary outputs based on conventionally
thought of as a random processes in
Quantum Mechanics for example
radioactive isotope Decay Photon
interference electron tunneling all of
these things have a known statistical
distribution and so if you imagine
something like imagine you have a wheel
that's spinning it's like a rouette
wheel let's call it you either have a
black marker or a white marker and so
this wheel it's spinning spinning
spinning when the radioactive particle
decays it stops the wheel so basically
you've created this perfect digital coin
flip by tying a digital coin flip to a
random quantum mechanical process we are
guaranteeing even distribution between
ones and zeros over a long enough time
scale finally you bring an observer
present to see the ones and zeros output
on the screen hey Jesse how you doing
good how are you doing thanks for having
me come on in all right let's do it the
Observer comes in with an intention
they're trying to skew the output on the
screen towards either ones or zeros I I
can see you're already trying to
influence AR you yeah should we all
should we all try ready mhm you'd expect
the Observer not to matter at all for
the output to be evenly distributed
between ones and zeros with an expected
standard deviation no matter who is
present when or where the experiment is
done but my friend who helped run this
Princeton lab has a ton of corroborated
evidence showing that there is a skewing
effect and that an observer who comes in
with the intention of ones or another
Observer with the intention of zeros can
often achieve a skewing towards those
outputs in a statistically significant
way to the extent that one can summarize
what we find is that the uh human
mind and the information processing
machines seem to be entering into some
sort of a dialogue which influences both
the machine and uh the human mind that
is interacting with it these
experimental trials are very well-run
and they adhere to strict scientific
protocols and trust me I've thrown the
kitchen sink of skepticism edit with him
survivorship bias P hacking file drawer
issues all your typical issues with
experimental protocols and data he has
pretty solid responses to all of these
if you look at it as a sort of a social
process in science like if you look at
as a social political process where
establishment means that a large cohort
of people agree with you I would say it
was never established it was always very
rejected if you say established means
did you run a well controlled experiment
that got a result at the level or
multiple Well Control experiments that
got a result at the level that for
example would allow them to say that a
new particle exists in physics or
something like that then
absolutely I did do an episode with him
and maybe when the world is ready I'll
drop it but for now I should just say
that this is a bridge too far for a lot
of people in science it's an
epistemological Paradigm Shift not a
scientific paradigm shift it says that
the intention and internal state of the
Observer matters for what's observed the
implications of this are literally
possible to list but they include and
are not limited to an allowance for all
sorts of air pockets of different
consensus realities this might explain
UFOs the Mandela effect and a whole host
of other anomalies we experience in our
everyday lives that we explain away
because we're told that those
experiences are fake or can't happen the
crazy thing I've found about random
event generators is that there are very
few people who've studied them who don't
come out believing that there is some
sort of Mind matter effect
even Irwin Schrodinger himself who again
developed the famous wave equation said
that measuring a particle in its present
State could affect its past clearly
entertaining parapsychological or
parasal adjacent ideas perhaps one of
the better compendiums of parasal data
is Courtney M Block's Encyclopedia of
parapsychology but the Ryan Institute
from duke the parab at Princeton and
Dean Raiden's ions also have good data
on random event generators
the reason random event generators
aren't taken seriously even if they show
Paradigm shifting mind-blowing effects
with their results alone is that we
can't figure out some clear causal
mechanism or turn the Mind matter
interaction into math or instrumentalize
it into any sort of useful technology I
think the existing Paradigm is it serves
some purpose but I think we are in the
St age I think the philosophical toolbox
that we're using to enact our existing
scientific method is way behind what
would have to be to ever account for
this stuff but that doesn't mean the
effect doesn't exist it just means we're
in the Stone Age on it and it's likely
pointing to a new paradigm for another
example of this in the past take
Mercury's orbit Newtonian math couldn't
describe it we needed to understand the
space-time curvature effect of the Sun
and for that we needed Einstein's
relativity or take black body radiation
an object that absorbs all electromag
magnetic radiation and reflects none of
it this was discovered in the 1860s by
Gustav kov but back then it was an
anomaly theoretically an object that
only absorbed light would exponentially
heat up and create an UltraViolet
catastrophe a cataclysmic explosion we
needed Max pl's work in 1900 around
Quant to understand why this doesn't
happen mathematically random event
generators in parapsychology are like
this the effects are real we just can't
turn them into math
and it was not a subject that I had any
background in from a scholarly
standpoint the guy that started the
Princeton
parasym physicist and propulsions
engineer named Bob John in fact Bob John
was even the dean of Princeton
engineering before starting pair and a
lot of his plasma propulsion systems are
still used in space this guy basically
threw away his career um in order to
pursue this I'll also say that naively
he didn't expect that it was going to be
received as sort of atrociously as it
was I think he thought well as long as I
do good experiments that are well
controlled you know it would be treated
like everything else in science so he
was sort of with his age and everything
else kind of coming from a time period
where a lot of the early Quantum
experimental people were just before him
he's kind of coming out of this mindset
of reality is this wide open thing
there's a lot to explore and find and he
thought that he was just kind of finding
and
exploring a new topic like I going to be
receiving that way Bob was ahead of his
time and in his book margins of reality
he discusses a model of Consciousness in
which waves coming from the Mind help
collapse the wave function modern
scientist Rupert sheldrick fully agrees
in fact that's how he thinks Vision
Works in general when light comes in
changes happen in the mind in the brain
and then the images are projected out so
my image of you is exactly where it
seems to be it's in 3D in full color but
it's located right where you're sitting
and it overlaps with you as it were and
so every I see is projected out of my
mind so my mind is extended beyond my
brain filling the whole world around
me well if you think about penrose's
model he discusses the SpaceTime superp
position buildup as occurring within the
human brain if there's anything to this
and the idea that our minds are just
graphical interfaces then of course
you'd be able to affect random quantum
mechanical processes you aren't
literally affecting the material world
with your mind you are just affecting
your unique computational rendering of
that Material World your mind is just an
interface but we keep bringing up this
idea that the mind is an interface do we
have any proof of that surely for
survival it would make sense that humans
would need to be seeing an objective
version of reality well that's actually
not true at all seeing the true nature
of reality is not always adaptive for
survival cognitive psychologist Donald
Hoffman shows all of the ways in which
perceiving reality actually can hurt
chances of survival take color all color
is just differentiated by where it sits
on the electromagnetic wave spectrum so
why don't we see the wavelengths of
light directly because it's in a human's
advantage to quickly categorize things
it's way more efficient for me to see
the color red than a 650 nanometer
wavelength to hear a ringing noise
instead of 2,000 HZ frequency waves if
you see blood you react immediately if
you see a bunch of light waves it might
take you a little longer to jump into
action so humans have evolved to see
colors and sounds they aren't intrinsic
parts of nature they are highlevel
abstractions they're like application
icons on a computer screen they're
simple categorizations that allow us to
navigate reality not the source code
underlying it we don't even know the
underlying substrate of what we're
seeing in my reality might be very
different from your
[Music]
reality there's an ocean of pure vibrant
Consciousness inside each one of us and
it's right at the source and base of
mind and it's also at the source of all
matter
[Music]
Nobel prizewinning physicist Ken Wilson
who worked at CERN in its early years
developed the concept of renormalization
which essentially looks at how the
behavior of a physical system changes
when viewed at different energy scales
at higher energy levels new and deeper
structures of physical laws emerge
revealing previously hidden phenomena
this process involves progressively
zooming in on a system by increasing the
energy and in so doing stripping away
The Superficial details of lower energy
physics to reveal the underlying more
fundamental
interactions Wilson used renormalization
to show that at high energy levels near
critical points such as phase
Transitions and materials new Universal
Behavior emerges that applies to a wide
range of systems essentially by pushing
systems to extreme conditions
near the critical temperature of a phase
transition for example their underlying
Dynamics become more evident in
conventional science this mostly applies
to materials and phase transitions but
perhaps Wilson's Concepts here have more
to do with the nature of reality itself
than we
realize when we do atmospheric testing
of nuclear weapons we could literally be
ripping holes in the fabric of reality
what if there's something about this
technology that actually disrupts
physical reality or changes
time the current Paradigm of atomic
energy output is the zarmon which exerts
80 to 100 megatons of TNT when we get to
upwards of 1 * 10 9th tons of TNT we can
start folding SpaceTime at
will if uh E equals MC squared then the
only way to get this sort of space time
metric effect is if you have enough
energy you got it because if you do it
the only what you waste to warp space
time is with mass or a lot of energy
think of mass and energy as the same
thing mass is ice energy as Steam okay
but they're both water okay so same
thing kind of here energy and mass have
this relationship so you need to get
plank scale energy or something I cannot
if I use Mass to do this I'm going I
need I need Mass more than the earth I'm
going to perturb everything on the
planet so what's probably happening it's
it's a whole lot of that uhhuh
so for all we know we're ripping little
holes in SpaceTime now or sending out
exotic electromagnetic or scalar
longitudinal waves every time we do a
nuclear test this would explain why UFOs
constantly show up around nuclear blasts
as documented by the great work of
journalist Robert Hastings in fact in
his seminal book UFOs and nukes Hastings
discusses intelligently moving green
Fireballs constantly showing up around
atmospheric test
these were documented by Edward J Rupel
head of blue book at the time and Dr
Lincoln laaz head of meteorology at
University of New
Mexico the rumors were they're probably
Soviet surveillance planes surveillance
planes you know and the controller told
me they were basically stationary you
know the the Soviets flying helicopters
over Montana I don't think
so so again with extreme energy output
you rip away higher levels of
abstraction getting to the root
information layer of reality and
breaking out of the
simulation this even makes sense in
quantum mechanics remember Heisenberg
uncertainty between position and
momentum well we also have Quantum
indeterminacy between time and level of
energy in other words precise
measurements between time and energy
trade against each other and high levels
of energy might disrupt time you talk
about Trinity and you talk about Roswell
and similar things happen in the towns
after the explosions you have people
report Devils chasing them around and
all sorts of Paranormal Activity so are
you opening up a window to another plane
you say that energy correlates with
information yes so if you have this
massive energy kind of uh output then
all of a sudden maybe you can you can
see more yes and it makes an impact that
continues that's that's permanent so the
question is is it is it a way to can we
walk up the chain of events and can we
get back to the source in some way um so
well the idea that uh they are from the
future is one idea there's an idea
that's more radical is that this is all
a
simulation the same bizarre effects may
have occurred with Tesla and Thomas
towns and Brown's
experiments AGN bonson who helped
establish quantum gravity which led to
string theory with his Institute of
field physics in North Carolina was also
funding towns and Brown's high voltage
gravitational experiments at the same
time bonson is quoted as saying strange
things happen at high mega voltage
across short distances bonson talks
about anomalous phenomena that happen
when you get into extremely high
voltages at extremely low currents he
was clearly referring to Thomas towns
and Brown's work towns and brown himself
thought that his work had clear
implications for time travel and he was
very aware that when you mess with
gravity you mess with
[Music]
time and what about CERN a single
particle beam in the Large Hadron
Collider creates 6.5 Terra electron
volts Collide the memes and you're at 13
Terra electron volts I can't even begin
to describe the level of energy output
here what does this have to do with
breaking out of the simulation well just
listen to what public health expert Dr
astd stuckelberger had to say about her
conversation with certain CERN
physicists there are beings from portals
coming in and out it's physicists from
the stern who told me this they've
testified to beings coming in and out of
portals yes okay so that was the
weirdest thing I'm including in this
video and it's definitely not hard
evidence I've emailed Dr stuckelberger
if anyone can get in touch with her
vouch for her character or introduce me
I would welcome it so I have no idea if
cortal are being created by cern's beam
collisions but what about the American
particle accelerator the cosmotron at
Brook Haven National Labs cosmotron was
the world's highest energy accelerator
before the Large Hadron Collider well
apparently there was a UFO crash
collected by the lab itself in
1992 it's about 7:00 at night and being
November it was full dark and all of a
sudden it was lighter out than it is
right
now and what about the plasma orbs that
people in and around the NASA space
shuttle have described or the controlled
ball lightning that seemed to show up in
Germany from 1942 to 1945 called food
Fighters plasma is the fourth energy
state after solids liquids and gases
it's what happens when you apply
extremely high energy to something for
more on this look at physicist Ken
scher's work on exotic vacuum objects
and Ken Wilson's model an object's
plasma State might reflect its true
reality more than its lower energy
instantiations so maybe we get to deeper
layers of reality deeper levels of
ontological Truth with high energy
output and that's just one way to break
out of the simulation but one we should
probably be pretty careful with and
leave in the hand of experts maybe there
other more natural ways out of the
simulation we have a bit more personal
control
[Music]
over people went to elus as human beings
they walked away thinking they were
Immortal this is the Fight Club of the
ancient world whatever happened there no
one talked about it under penalty of
death we have no Great War no Great
Depression our Great War is a spiritual
war our Great Depression is our
[Applause]
[Music]
lives a certain percentage of near-death
experiencers experience what's called a
Life review
and you're basically replaying every
single event from your life but you're
doing it not just on a two-dimensional
screen it's as if you're in a virtual
reality or a holograph so danian
Brinkley called it a holographic
panoramic three-dimensional review of
your life and so you have to replay
every moment but what happens is you
have to replay it not from your own
perspective but from the perspective of
other people in your life so he was in
the milit and actually you know killed
people during the Vietnam war he had to
experience what it was like to take a
bullet from himself and then he had to
see the Ripple effects of that guy who
died of his wife and kids how did this
play out what are the effects of your
actions and as a computer scientist as
an engineer the question that I ask
first is if it can be replayed like that
it has to be recorded like that
because every single employee
understands that they are part of a
[Music]
whole the first thing most people think
of when they hear the word simulation
theory is the movie The Matrix partially
inspired by Jean balard but the idea
that the physical world is an illusion
shielding us from a more primordial
unseen realm dates back to Antiquity a
lot of ancient Traditions have this
concept of an illusion a great illusion
like Maya that would be the Hindu
version and um Plato's Cave glone talks
about a form of meditation or a protocol
to sort of See Beyond the Veil do you
sort of believe in anything like that or
I Plato's Cave was the most powerful
simplest way to show our predicament but
you know that's why we have science I
mean yeah that's what Plato wanted us to
do he wanted to then develop science out
of that to calibrate the illusion and
and then go go outside and and try to
see what the reality was it was creating
it so it is an illusion until you can
measure it and the question is can you
so if we're stuck in this cave what do
we do about it this is the question the
mystics faced in response they divised
various spiritual Technologies to enable
them to make this Celestial Ascent to
the heavens typically Ty Al by inducing
Altered States Of Consciousness via
sensory deprivation fasting isolation
abstinence meditation ceremonial ritual
breathing techniques intense
visualization and sometimes
drugs I think any tradition that makes
use of psychedelics whether they want to
or not are going to make deliberate
contact this is why you can find
Buddhist monks in the Himalayas and
Jewish rabis in 13th century Spain both
going into isolation at temples and
following the same estic protocols as
well as reporting very similar mystical
experiences the breathing and
visualization Protocols of the Jewish
Mera Mystics mirror those found in yoga
and pranayama in India so closely that
modern day Scholars of Jewish cabala are
using Indian tantric texts to better
understand their own texts including the
corresponding esoteric symbolic systems
and when the doy Lama himself met with a
group of Jewish cabalists he was very
surprised to find that the cabalistic
meditations and prayer techniques were
strikingly similar to Buddhist
Meditation techniques at one point in
their conversation his Holiness
interjected to ask the cabalists if
Jewish Angels had colors associated with
them the cabalist replied oh yes some
are blue and some are orange the dolly
Lama became fascinated and urged them to
continue saying he found much
sophistication in their thinking the
dolly Lama also met with Harvard
psychiatrist John Mack about aliens and
expressed a similar companionship of
World
Views the goal of these esoteric
practices other than instilling
discipline is to induce stress on the
psyche and body to derange the senses
and lead to Altered States Of
Consciousness the Common Thread between
nearly all mystical practices regardless
of religion or culture is the idea that
one had to break the servitude of soul
to the body in order to liberate the
spirit and so if our Consciousness our
soul is kind of contained or filtered by
our body by our brain that would be
consistent with a lot of these myth
mythological stories that the body is
kind of like a container almost like a
prison like our soul has like fallen
from this in like very rich Dynamic
extra multi-dimensional world and we're
kind of like stuck here in this like
limited Fallen World of death
[Music]
but the similarities don't end there all
across the world you can find an
emphasis on the soul ascending through
various levels of Heaven The Book of
Enoch and the Mera texts of ancient
Jewish Mystics describe an Ascent
through seven healo also called palaces
via the use of breathing techniques
visualization and Mantra like prayers
quick side note just keep the term
palaces in
mind they also describe encountering
Celestial Gatekeepers at each level to
who assum you had to give the proper
password or sign to pass some of these
Angelic Gatekeepers were dangerous if
passed improperly this is reflected in
the Jewish parable of the paries where
four rabbis attempted Celestial set and
only one came back alive with his sanity
intact the others either died or went
insane some Scholars even believe that
the Apostle Paul may have been familiar
with these practices and he described
his own Celestial Ascent to the third
heaven in the second Corinthians one in
which these Angelic Gatekeepers gave him
a thorn in the flesh wasn't Paul
supposedly According to some Scholars
kind of a cabalist too like he was a in
the meraba kind of um you know Ezekiel
tradition it looks like it I mean you
know I'm not a new testament scholar so
I don't want to go out on the limb and
say for sure you know that he was but
yeah if you look at his you know his
conversion it looks similar to meraba
you know uh and I do have friends who
are New Testament Scholars and they
won't they don't feel comfortable coming
out and saying these things but they'll
tell me in secret they'll say yeah yeah
you know Jesus too by the way they're
like really why don't you write a book
about that in the book of Acts he goes
up on the cloud that's
right if we go back even further to the
oldest religious text we have the
ancient Egyptian pyramid texts from
2,400 BC we see the pharaoh's soul is
Guided by the priests through the seven
AR also called you guessed it palaces
again with the priests chanting mant
like prayers and the deceased Pharaoh
being given the required passwords and
amulets to pass safely through the gates
of these seven palaces in the mithis
Liturgy found in Greek magical papiery
an initiate employ breathing techniques
visualizations chants and ceremonial
rituals to ascend through the seven
Heavens again being confronted at each
by a gatekeeper who had to be
supplicated with the proper passwords
and signs and in Islam there are seven
Earths and seven heavens and in Chinese
shanking Daoism one again uses breathing
techniques visualizations mantras and
ceremonial rituals to send one's soul
out of the body and through the heavens
and there are specific incantations and
talism for each level compare all of
these to near-death experiences and
psychedelic experiences like DMT where
people come back from the experience
saying that the place they went was more
real than real
the pervasiveness of this idea even
amongst drastically different cultures
and people with no background in
mysticism strongly indicates that the
concepts are Downstream of some sort of
objective
[Music]
reality so we see this this metaphor of
forgetfulness uh and of veiling across
different religions and then you can
even see other interesting metaphors
like in the Bhagavad Gita there's a
metaphor that the soul puts puts on uh
the body or an identity like a series of
clothes garments and then it takes them
off just like you would take off certain
clothes that you're wearing and it turns
out in the Sufi Traditions here roomi is
using almost the exact the exact same
metaphor right he's saying the soul
takes on the body is clothed by the body
it's like he's putting on clothes and
you start to look at all these different
metaphors and then you then you ask
yourself I mean too often I think
scientists will just dismiss these not
just scientists even social scientists
and religious Scholars within Academia
are trained to just dismiss these
stories but what if they were telling us
something that is actually happening but
they didn't have the language
necessarily to describe it in a more
technical way yeah so what would they do
they would use metaphors right and so
they had to use a metaphor that would
make sense to people at that point in
history so 2,000 years ago you could
easily understand the metaphor of
putting on uh a set of clothes right or
this idea that the world is an illusion
yeah uh Maya is a term that's used in
Sanskrit and Buddhism and Hinduism as a
key part of their cosmology that the
physical world isn't real and so if you
look at the term Maya it actually means
something a little more subtle than just
illusion and so one of the things I
think we're dealing with is that we're
talking in English and We're translating
all these terms but we don't always
capture some of the more subtle meanings
that were attached to it so Maya is not
just illusion it also me means the power
of Illusion so it's the power by which
the gods let's say uh can make you think
this world is real but it turns out it's
even more subtle than that and someone
once described it I think the best
description is he said if you go to a
magic show and there's a magician on
stage and you know he's not really
sawing that woman in half right you know
it's an illusion but yet you're like oh
my god wow that's cool that's the reason
you're there to enjoy the show is you
actually make the decision to kind of
suspend your disbelief uh in order to
enjoy the show and so that's the the
more yeah exactly you take the blue pill
rather than the red pill right you're
actually deciding that you will be
fooled by this world uh and turns out
that concept you know it's not just an
Eastern concept it it exists in some of
the Jude Christian Traditions as well
but in the Islamic Traditions there's
actual verses that say we have set up
this world for you as a game as a p time
as a sport right and that it is a
particular kind of delusion it uses a
particular word El gurri and it has
another word in front of it like matal
which actually means it's an enjoyable
delusion like the whole world is an
enjoyable delusion now we all know bad
things happen in this world so why would
you know why would the scriptures be
calling an enjoyable delusion or a magic
show or a game or a Leela the play of
the god
uh which is another one of the Hindu
terms that they use and the reason is
because that's how enjoy is like quote
unquote right when you go to watch a
horror show a horror movie you mean
you're watching people like hack each
other up and doing all these terrible
things and you're enjoying it why it's
because it's part of the illusion and
part of the story and I think the old
metaphors are of a the world is a dream
the world is an illusion the world is a
stage are all powerful metaphors but we
live in a time when we have more
advanced technology so we can use new
metaphors that perhaps describe it
better it's like a movie you have a
script but you can change the script if
you want and there's other people that
are in there with you we're all the
actors but we're also the audience
watching ourselves you basically say
we're a massively multiplayer online
roleplaying video game right that is I
think the best metaphor to date for this
thing called reality that might be too
hard to explain in words it might be
ineffable what what do UFOs possibly
have to do with the simulation
hypothesis because I know you're
obviously you know uh one of the main uh
progenitors of the simulation hypothesis
but you're also very interested in UFOs
and you know a lot of the sort of top
thinkers on that subject as well yeah
I've spent a lot of time with different
folks in the UFO community and you know
I'm I'm an adviser of the Galileo
project and peripherally involved with
the soul project as well at Stanford and
you know one of the problems is that it
seems that UFOs act in such absurd ways
that we can't often take it completely
seriously you know from a scientific
point of view because it doesn't sound
always like we're talking about a
physical thing sometimes it it is a
physical thing and sometimes it isn't so
jacqu valet told me about this case that
really got me thinking and it was
somewhere in like Northern California or
or Oregon you know where there's there's
these tall redwood trees and he said the
witnesses said that the UFO had come
down at a 45 degree angle and he had
left some marks on the ground and so
everybody came and investigated and then
all the other investigators left but
jock stayed behind and he asked them
well you said it came down at a 45
degree angle but that would mean it
would have had to cut through the
redwood trees I mean these are tall
trees
they're like yeah it did that but we
didn't want to say that because we would
sound crazy if we said that right so
when you have something that's that's
cutting through physical matter and then
suddenly it becomes more
physical to me that reminded me of
either a holographic projection or
rendering within a video game right
within a video game while you're
rendering you can become
semi-transparent you can walk through
walls but then once once you're rendered
in the world you can't go through the
wall anymore you're in like that
physical state and so it's possible that
UFOs are being projected into this world
and then they become part of the world
so I'm not saying UFOs aren't physical
in the platonic sense they might be
hyperobjects that exist outside of the
cave meant to be glimpsed so you know
there's something higher to Aspire to
outside of the bounds of the narrow
simulation you're in they scramble your
brain a bit and raise your Consciousness
causing you to contemplate higher Realms
this is a thesis that Dr James Madden
flushes out in his great book
unidentified flying hyper objects
empirically it also just seems like UFOs
have access to the information substrate
of the universe itself they can
materialize and dematerialize at will
and seem to skip across time they're
probably way more concerned with time
and timelines than they are specific
individuals in their lives and maybe
this whole worldview has a thing or two
to do with secret UFO government
programs after all Diana pula's Source
in her new book encounters was the
daughter of somebody who she thought was
in a secret space program one thing that
will always give me the chills from that
account is that her father would
constantly refer to the word simulacra
at lunch tables with his
colleagues we are living in a computer
programmed reality and the only clue we
have to it is when some variable is
changed vu
what did you just say nothing just had a
little Deja Vu switch
acket what is it a Dej Vu is usually a
glitch in The Matrix it happens when
they change
[Music]
something it was actually a speech by
Philip K dick that got me thinking along
these lines because you know he had a
famous speech in Mets France where he
said we are living in a computer
programmed reality and that's the famous
line
but then he said and the only clue we
have to it is when some variable is
changed some alteration occurs in our
reality and so basically what he was
saying is you can go back and change the
timeline change the variable and rerun
the timeline and he came to believe that
his novel turned into a very well-known
series called The Man in the High Castle
which was about Germany and Japan
winning World War II he came to believe
that was a real timeline not just
something he had imagined right and he
came to believe that the simulators
actually decided to rerun another
timeline and they like this timeline
better that this timeline has gone on
further so it gets back to this idea
that not only could there be multiple
timelines but they could be cut off at
certain points and that's what we do in
computer science that's what we do like
if an AI is playing a video game against
you it might project forward to see what
the best outcomes are and then it will
trim the tree if you will so that it
would just go forward speaking of Philip
K dick I know you're friends with his
wife he wrote a another book called The
Adjustment team about like you know
somebody that a team that has more root
access than than we would if you will
and they can sort of you know mess with
timelines you know somebody gets to the
office early and they're sort of you
know they're they're they're doing their
thing and it's a freeze frame and so do
you think that's possible do you think
that there are sort of timeline
manipulators out there I I think so you
know Tessa his wife she told me that he
came up with the idea for that story
which eventually became the movie The
Adjustment Bureau with Matt Damon and
Emily Blunt because he went into the
bathroom and there was a light that he
had turned on and off many times like uh
he thought it was a like a chain if you
remember the old chains but it had been
replaced with a light switch and so he
began to wonder did somebody change this
out while I wasn't here because i' I've
you know turned this light on a hundred
times and I know it was a chain and now
it's a light switch or the other way
around I forget exactly which way it was
but it was different right and so so
that's when he began to wonder about
that and if you listen to that full
speech of Philip K dick from Mets France
what he's saying is these uh alterations
would occur in our reality we would have
the sense that we were rerunning the
same events that we were saying the same
things we were experiencing the same we
would have the same things we would have
a sense of deja vu and he said this is a
clue that some at some point in the past
a variable was changed and the simul was
run forward and so he ended up using
almost the exact same language and I
didn't know this when when I was
choosing the term clue on a treasure
hunt that says maybe the future is
sending us clues about where we might
want to end up and maybe that's what
UFOs are it's people from the future
sending back or not people but entities
from the future sending back information
about where they want us to go and maybe
there's multiple ones sending us back so
human evolution is almost about being
able to pick the best time possible
timeline or something it's like you're
you're you're you're optimizing
timelines you're you're improving
timelines continuously or something
right right that that I mean what if
today we think World War II has happened
and this is you know it's a fixed past
and there's going to be a future from
here but what if this is just one run of
the simulation and we're trying to
optimize you know something so what is
the optimization function that we're
trying to optimize by running multiple
timelines that we are the simulators in
this G
uh and it could be that we are doing
that all the time we are basically
sensing these multiple Futures and how
could we sense these Futures if they
haven't happened
yet right I don't know and and unless
they actually have happened as little
runs of a simulation exactly and that is
the difference between a human brain and
AI is we sort of have these intuitions
with low sample size data or no data
where and sometimes it's a totally
irrational decision but it just sort of
feels right and it ends up working out
and nobody you know we don't have like a
neuroscientific model as to how that
works and so this is a really
interesting model and so I guess if you
are a a a human playing this sort of
game are you just trying to look out for
what resonates with you and like be in
touch with your instincts or something
or like because presumably right I'm not
lelo's demon and I I I can't know at
least in my my own little branch of the
Multiverse or even you know block
Universe I can't know exactly what
decision is going to end up optimally
for for me or for the world and so do
you just have to sort of go with what
resonates with you you have to almost
develop that sense for you know possibly
what you've experienced in the future or
something yeah I think so it's like a
future memory in a in a sense you're
sensing what is the best outcome now
best is a relative term just like
earlier I talked about an enjoyable
illusion the world is enjoyable but
enjoy able only in the sense that you're
going to have to experience all this
stuff similarly here it's possible that
as you're playing the game the way the
way we play video games is we have
quests and we choose quests and certain
quests are more difficult than others
right and it's possible that we end up
choosing a very difficult Quest or or a
difficult storyline it could be that we
hamstring our character with a physical
handicap from right at the beginning but
maybe that's an indication of a much
higher level player than those of us who
don't have physical handicaps because
now they want to play it in hard mode
right or difficult mode uh so they've
cranked up that difficulty level so I I
think we are sensing these Futures and
we have to be careful this is why I
think this idea of NPC mode comes into
play because sometimes we're just uh we
get so influence from the people around
us right I you spend time in Silicon
Valley I spent time in Silicon Valley
and you start to think differently you
know you start to think oh everyone
wants to start the next unicorn the next
billion dollar company and that becomes
the priority whereas if you spend time
and York or Hollywood you know you're
worried about the next film or whatever
but you get so influenced by the
environment around you that you start to
make decisions based on that rather than
uh an internal intuition yeah and
Stephen Spielberg you know says he
teaches his kids that the best
intuitions are like Whispers but you you
in order to tune into the whisper you
have to tune out all the loud noise all
around you and so sometimes we're just
making decisions based on this this
programming that we have oh okay job
will pay me more than that therefore I'm
just going to go with this job right but
in fact this other job will be in a
place where you won't be stressed out
and maybe that's where you're meant to
be and so I think you have to separate
out what I call genuine Clues which
could be messages from the future if you
take sort of a quantum physics approach
if you're more spiritual or new age you
might say the guard guardian angels are
sending you these messages or you might
say it's the adjustment team that's
working with you from a Philip K dip
science fiction perspective but one way
or another we we get these intuitions
and I think they are about the
experiences that we might have at some
point in the
future in our materialist world view the
world is undergoing a constant process
of entropy from order to chaos this is
the second law of Thermodynamics and it
cannot be reversed it is also the basis
for Chaos Theory everything changes and
everything decays but if the
parapsychology studies I mentioned are
real maybe Consciousness is the only
entropy reduced on Earth just look at
the work of Carl friston perhaps the
greatest living neuroscientist friston's
free energy principles say that neurons
are attracted to low entropy and Order
rather than chaos and Randomness there
is even a term coined for the biological
attraction to order it's called centropy
or the inverse of entropy Consciousness
and intention are likely what makes
biology attracted to order and probably
a big driver in evolution something
Irwin Sher himself theorized in his
great 1944 lecture series what is life
and something that biologist Michael
Levan at tus is discovering now that
biological cells have clear goals and
[Music]
intentions and so because of that
Consciousness must be preserved at all
costs but if humans don't choose to
remain conscious and exercise their
divine right they can get taken over by
the computer program and turned into a
non-player character
one of the great founders of AI of
course is uh Dr McCarthy at Stanford
okay he had the ai ai lab on the on the
hill and he told a a story again this
was when AI was a very you know there
were only two or three Labs that did AI
in in the world and his story was uh you
know in in the future you're going on
with your job for example you're uh you
you're selling some you know insurance
or something you you're selling
something you fill out the form and
people pay you and in the evening you
you go home and you watch TV with your
kids okay and then the next morning you
get into your car you go to the office
and you fill out some forms and people
pay you and you go home okay
and then one day you're going to get a
letter from the Bureau of
simulation the Bureau of simulation says
de
sir we have observed your daily behavior
for the last six
months and you have not done anything
that was not predicted by the model of
the world we we run a model of the world
and you're in
it if in the next six months you don't
do something that's not predicted by the
model you will be replaced by a
simulated
human so the guy is in shock and you
know tells his wife you know I I need to
do something and change my life
completely so he drops out of his job
takes whatever money he has moves to the
Himalayas starts climbing mountains
meditates does all the things you're
supposed to do you know and and six
months later he goes
home a week goes by and he feels really
good goes back to his job and there's a
letter that arrives from the Bureau of
simulation that says Dear Sir in the
last six months you still haven't done
anything that
wasn't predicted by the simulation model
and you have been
replaced so he's still there doing his
job waking up in the morning driving his
car and so on but he doesn't exist
anymore yeah NPC he a simulated yeah
piece of software that does
all we live in a modern world obsessed
with material things and becoming
increasingly obsessed with artificial
intelligence and low-level virtual
simulations on our phones as the great
Marshall cluan once said every media
extension of man is an
amputation if our universe is in fact a
simulation and world religions and
science point to this we should probably
be thinking more about how to break out
of it and into a higher Realm by
contemplating and exercising virtue
instead of being obsessed with dropping
into lower more bitc compressed digital
worlds to escape our pain if we can
Ascend maybe we can see ourselves for
who we really are and our world for what
it truly is as the great Irwin schroer
ended all of his lectures otman equals
Bron that's our show thank you Riz ver
for your time and amazing work and to
the audience for entertaining this
slightly skito rant until next time I'm
Jessie
Michaels oh thank you baby this is so
cute M that was good coconut yes yes yes
yes yes yes B amazing meow meow meow yes
yes yes ice cream so good cha cha money
I got your name wow a lot of gift for
you yes yes thank you baby so cute huh